# Module 1: Introduction to Self-Service BI Solutions

- [Module 1: Introduction to Self-Service BI Solutions](#module-1-introduction-to-self-service-bi-solutions)
  - [Lab: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#lab-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
    - [Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data](#exercise-1-connecting-to-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: View Reports in SharePoint Server](#task-2-view-reports-in-sharepoint-server)
    - [Exercise 2: Creating a Power BI Report](#exercise-2-creating-a-power-bi-report)
      - [Task 1: Import Data into Power BI Desktop](#task-1-import-data-into-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 2: Add Visualizations to the Report](#task-2-add-visualizations-to-the-report)
    - [Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#exercise-3-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 1: Create a Power BI Dashboard](#task-1-create-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 2: Ask Questions of Your Data](#task-2-ask-questions-of-your-data)


## Lab: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

### Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, **20778C-MIA-SQL**, and **20778C-MIA-CLI** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run **Setup.cmd** in the **D:\Labfiles\Lab01\Starter** folder as **Administrator**.

3. If you do not already have a Power BI login, browse to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and follow the steps to create an account.

4. In Internet Explorer, type **http://mia-sql/sites/adventureworks**, and then press Enter, wait for the site to appear.

#### Task 2: View Reports in SharePoint Server

1. Log on to **20778C-MIA-CLI** as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open the **Adventure Works Sales.xlsx** file from the **D:\Labfiles\Lab01\Starter\Project** folder.

3. Click **Enable Content** if the security warning shows.

4. In the **SalesPerson** tab, click **Summarize with PivotTable** to create a new tab.

5. Add the **FirstName** to the **Axis**, and the **SalesYTD** to the **Values**.

6. Add a new **PivotChart**, as a clustered column chart.

7. Move the chart to a new sheet called **Sales Person Chart**.

8. Save the file to the **http://mia-sql/sites/adventureworks/Shared Documents**.

9. Close Excel 2016.

10. Open Internet Explorer from the taskbar, and navigate to **http://mia-sql/sites/adventureworks/Shared Documents**.

11. Open the **Adventure Works Sales** workbook, and then view the **Sales Person Chart**.

12. Close Excel 2016, and then close Internet Explorer.

---

### Exercise 2: Creating a Power BI Report

#### Task 1: Import Data into Power BI Desktop

1. Log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\Student**, with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open Power BI Desktop, and sign in.

3. Import the **FactInternetSales** table, and related tables from the **AdventureWorksDW** database.

4. Name the file **Adventure Works Sales**, and save the file to the **D:\Labfiles\Lab01\Starter\Project** folder.

#### Task 2: Add Visualizations to the Report

1. Drag the **SalesAmount** field from the **FactInternetSales** table onto the report to create a column chart.

2. Add the **EnglishDayNameOfWeek** field from **DimDate** to the **Axis**.

3. Move the chart to the top left-hand corner of the report, and expand it to show all the days of the week.

4. Change the title to **Sales by Day of Week**.

5. Center align the chart title.

6. Drag the **SalesAmount** field from **FactInternetSales** onto the report, and add **CalendarQuarter** from **DimDate**. 

7. Move the **CalendarQuarter** to the **Axis** property.

8. Rename the title of the chart **Sales by Calendar Quarter**, and center align the text.

9. Change the data colors so quarter 1 is **red**, quarter 2 is **blue**, and quarter 3 is **yellow**.

10. Move the chart to the right of the **Sales by Day of Week** chart, and make them the same size.

11. Drag **SalesTerritoryCountry** onto the report to create a map visual, and add **SalesAmount** from **FactInternetSales**.

12. Rename the map title, **Sales by Country**, and center align the title.

13. Drag the **CommuteDistance** field from **DimCustomer** onto the report under the **Sales by Calendar Quarter** chart. Add **SalesAmount** from **FactInternetSales**.

14. Change the chart to a donut.

15. Rename the chart **Sales by Commute Distance**, and center align the text.

16. Save the file.

---

### Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

#### Task 1: Create a Power BI Dashboard

1. Publish the report to the Power BI Service, and then open it. Sign in using your email address and password.

2. Pin **Sales by Day of Week** to a new dashboard named **Adventure Works Sales 1**.

3. Pin **Sales by Calendar Quarter** to the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard.

4. Pin **Sales by Country** to the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard.

5. Pin **Sales by Commuter Distance** to the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard.

#### Task 2: Ask Questions of Your Data

1. In the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard, click in the **Ask a question about your** data box.

2. View the data in **DimCustomers** table.

3. Ask Power BI how many customers there are.

4. Pin the visual to the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard.

5. Ask Power BI who the oldest customer is.

6. Ask Power BI how many products are red.

7. Ask Power BI which country has the most male customers.

8. Pin the visual to the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard.

9. Under **My Workspace**, under **DASHBOARDS**, click **Adventure Works Sales 1** to refresh the dashboard.

10. Close Internet Explorer, and Power BI Desktop.
