# Module 2: Introducing Power BI

- [Module 2: Introducing Power BI](#module-2-introducing-power-bi)
  - [Lab 1: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#lab-1-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
    - [Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data](#exercise-1-connecting-to-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: Connect to SQL Server from the Power BI Desktop](#task-2-connect-to-sql-server-from-the-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 3: Add Charts to the Report](#task-3-add-charts-to-the-report)
      - [Task 4: Publish the Report to the Power BI Portal](#task-4-publish-the-report-to-the-power-bi-portal)
    - [Exercise 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard](#exercise-2-create-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 1: Create a New Dashboard](#task-1-create-a-new-dashboard)
      - [Task 2: Add Chart Items to the Dashboard](#task-2-add-chart-items-to-the-dashboard)
      - [Task 3: Customize the Dashboard](#task-3-customize-the-dashboard)
      - [Task 4: Display the Dashboard in Full Screen Mode](#task-4-display-the-dashboard-in-full-screen-mode)


## Lab 1: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

### Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, and **20778C-MIA-SQL** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run **Setup.cmd** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02\\Starter** folder as Administrator. If prompted to continue this operation, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

3. When the script completes, press any key to close the window.

4. If you do not already have a Power BI login, go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and follow the steps to create an account.

#### Task 2: Connect to SQL Server from the Power BI Desktop

1. Open the **Power BI Desktop** application.

2. Connect to **MIA-SQL** using the **Get Data** tool in Power BI Desktop.

3. Add the **Sales.vSalesPerson** data.

4. Add the **Sales.vStoreWithDemographics** data.

5. Use a query to import data for the top 10 selling products.

#### Task 3: Add Charts to the Report

1. Add a bar chart to the report to display the year-to-date (YTD) sales for each sales person.

2. Resize the bar chart to display all salespersons.

3. Change the bar color for the three highest sales.

4. Add a pie chart to show the proportion of employees by specialty.

5. Add a bar chart to display the top 10 selling products.

6. Change the top 10 selling products bar to a donut chart.

7. Create a bar chart by dragging a field on to the report canvas.

8. Rename fields in the data sets.

9. Rename the report.

10. Save the report to the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02\\Power BI** folder.

#### Task 4: Publish the Report to the Power BI Portal

1. Connect to the Microsoft Power BI portal using your Microsoft account.

2. Publish the report.

3. View the report online to check that it has published correctly.

---

### Exercise 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard

#### Task 1: Create a New Dashboard

1. Create a dashboard in the Power BI portal.

2. Name the new dashboard **Adventure Works Sales 2**.

#### Task 2: Add Chart Items to the Dashboard

1. Pin the **SalesYTD by FirstName** chart to the **Adventure Works Sales 2** dashboard.

2. Pin the **LineTotal by Product** chart to the **Adventure Works Sales 2** dashboard.

3. Pin the **Annual Sales and Annual Revenue** chart to the **Adventure Works Sales 2** dashboard.

#### Task 3: Customize the Dashboard

1. Reorder the sequence of the charts on the **Adventure Works Sales 2** dashboard.

2. Change the size of the **SalesYTD** chart to span the width of the above charts.

3. Change the titles and subtitles of the charts.

#### Task 4: Display the Dashboard in Full Screen Mode

1. Use **Enter Full Screen Mode** to display the report for presentations or on a TV.

2. When in the full screen mode, use the **Fit to Screen** feature to remove excess space and fill more of the screen.

3. Click a chart and use **Open in focus mode** to display and zoom in on a single tile.

4. Use **Pin visual** to create a new dashboard from the current dashboard.

5. Close Internet Explorer, and then close Power BI Desktop.
