# Module 8: The Developer API Development with Power BI

- [Module 8: The Developer API Development with Power BI](#module-8-the-developer-api-development-with-power-bi)
  - [Lab: Using Marketplace Visualizations](#lab-using-marketplace-visualizations)
    - [Exercise 1: Use a Custom Visualization](#exercise-1-use-a-custom-visualization)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: Using Custom Visuals](#task-2-using-custom-visuals)


## Lab: Using Marketplace Visualizations

### Exercise 1: Use a Custom Visualization

#### Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment

1. Ensure that the **20778C-MIA-DC**, **20778C-MIA-SQL**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab08\\Starter** folder, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. If prompted to continue this operation, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

5. When the script completes, press any key to close the window.

6. If you do not have a Power BI login, open Internet Explorer, browse to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and then follow the steps to create an account.

#### Task 2: Using Custom Visuals

1. On the Taskbar, click **Power BI Desktop**.

2. In the **Welcome to Power BI Desktop** window, click **Already have a Power BI account? Sign in**.

3. In the **Sign in** dialog box, enter your account credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

4. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter your password credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

5. In the **Power BI Desktop** window, click **Open other reports**.

6. In the **Open** dialog box, browse to **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Project**, click **Adventure Works Sales.pbix**, and then click **Open**.

7. If the **Introducing Q&A** dialog box appears, click **Got it**.

8. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click the ellipsis (**...**), and then click **Import from marketplace**.

9. In the **Power BI Visuals** dialog box, in the **Search** box, type **Sunburst**, and then press Enter.

10. Next to **Sunburst**, click **Add**.

11. In the **Import custom visual** dialog box, click **OK**.

12. In the **Report** view, on the **Sales Report** tab, click the **Order Quantity by Color and Sales Person** visual.

13. In the **VISUALIZATION** pane, click the **Sunburst** icon. Data that was previously displayed using the **Clustered column chart** should now be displayed in the **Sunburst** visualization.

14. Close Power BI Desktop, without saving any changes.
