# Module 7: Direct Connectivity

- [Module 7: Direct Connectivity](#module-7-direct-connectivity)
  - [Lab: Direct connectivity](#lab-direct-connectivity)
    - [Exercise 1: Direct connections in Power BI](#exercise-1-direct-connections-in-power-bi)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the lab environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: Direct connectivity from the Power BI Desktop](#task-2-direct-connectivity-from-the-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 3: Direct connectivity from the Power BI service](#task-3-direct-connectivity-from-the-power-bi-service)


## Lab: Direct connectivity

### Exercise 1: Direct connections in Power BI

#### Task 1: Prepare the lab environment

1. Ensure that the **20778C-MIA-DC**, **20778C-MIA-SQL**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In File Explorer, in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter** folder, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. If prompted to continue this operation, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

5. When the script completes, press any key to close the window.

6. If you do not have a Power BI login, open Internet Explorer, browse to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and then follow the steps to create an account.

7. In File Explorer, go to **D:**, double-click **Creating an AdventureWorks Database on Azure.docx**, and then complete the steps to create the **AdventureWorksLT** database.

#### Task 2: Direct connectivity from the Power BI Desktop

1. On the Taskbar, click **Power BI Desktop**.

2. In the **Welcome to Power BI Desktop** window, click **Already have a Power BI account? Sign in**.

3. In the **Sign in** dialog box, enter your account credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

4. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter your password credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

5. In the **Power BI Desktop** window, click **Get data**.

6. In the **Get Data** dialog box, click **Azure SQL database**, and then click **Connect**.

7. In the **SQL Server database** window, in the **Server** box, type the URL of the Azure server **\<*Server Name*\>.database.windows.net** (where **\<*Server Name*\>** is the name of the server that you created).

8. In the **Database (optional)** box, type **AdventureWorksLT**.

9. Under **Data Connectivity mode**, click **DirectQuery**, and then click **OK**.

10. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, on the **Database** tab, in the **User name** box, type **Student**.

11. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.

12. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **SalesLT.Product** and **SalesLT.SalesOrderDetail** check boxes, and then click **Load**.

13. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click the **Card** icon.

14. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand the **SalesLT SalesOrderDetail** table, and drag the **OrderQty** field to the chart.

15. Click the canvas, to ensure that the Card chart is not active.

16. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click the **Slicer** icon.

17. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand the **SalesLT Product** table, and drag the **SellStartDate** field to the chart.

18. Drag the slider bar to reduce the date range, and verify that the **OrderQty** value changes.

19. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

20. In the **Save As** dialog box, go to the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter** folder, in the **File name** box, type **Sales Orders**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Direct connectivity from the Power BI service

1. In Power BI Desktop, click **Publish**.

2. In the **Publish to Power BI** dialog box, click **My workspace**, and then click **Select**.

3. In the **Publishing to Power BI** dialog box, note the gateway message, and then click **Got it**; do not click the link.

    > Note that, to configure the dataset settings for a DirectQuery data source, you need a Power BI Pro account.

4. In Internet Explorer, go to **http://www.powerbi.com**, and then click **Sign in**.

5. Sign in using the credentials you used to sign up for Power BI service.

6. In Power BI, in the navigation pane, expand **My Workspace**, and then under **REPORTS**, click **Sales Orders**.

7. In the message bar, click **Show details**.

8. On the **Data source credentials missing** dialog box, click the **dataset settings page** link.

9. On the **Datasets** tab, click **Sales Orders**.

10. On the **Settings for Sales Orders** page, click **Edit credentials**.

11. In the **Configure Sales Orders** dialog box, in the **Authentication method** list, click **Basic**.

12. In the **User name** box, type **Student.**

13. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Sign in.**

14. In the navigation pane, under **My Workspace**, under **REPORTS**, click **Sales Orders**.

15. In the **Sales Orders** report, there is a card visualization for **OrderQty**, and a slicer for **SellStartDate**.

16. Click **Edit report**.

17. Click the canvas to ensure that neither of the current visualizations are active.

18. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click the **Card** icon.

19. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand the **SalesLT SalesOrderDetail** table, and drag the **LineTotal** field to the chart.

20. Close Internet Explorer, and then close Power BI Desktop.
