# Module 6: Interactive Data Visualizations

- [Module 6: Interactive Data Visualizations](#module-6-interactive-data-visualizations)
  - [Lab: Creating a Power BI Report](#lab-creating-a-power-bi-report)
    - [Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data](#exercise-1-connecting-to-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-environment)
      - [Task 2: Connect to Existing Data in Azure](#task-2-connect-to-existing-data-in-azure)
      - [Task 3: Shape Data](#task-3-shape-data)
      - [Task 4: Combine Data](#task-4-combine-data)
    - [Exercise 2: Building Power BI Reports](#exercise-2-building-power-bi-reports)
      - [Task 1: Create a Chart](#task-1-create-a-chart)
      - [Task 2: Create a Map Visualization](#task-2-create-a-map-visualization)
    - [Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#exercise-3-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 1: Publish Reports from Power BI Desktop](#task-1-publish-reports-from-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard](#task-2-create-a-power-bi-dashboard)


## Lab: Creating a Power BI Report

### Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Prepare the Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, and **20778C-MIA-SQL** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run **Setup.cmd** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter** folder as Administrator.

3. Sign up for an Office 365 login if you do not already have one.

4. Create the **AdventureWorksLT** database using the **D:\\Creating an AdventureWorks Database on Azure.docx**.

#### Task 2: Connect to Existing Data in Azure

1. Open the **Lab Exercise 1.sql** file in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\Project** folder.

2. Open Power BI Desktop.

3. Connect to the **AdventureWorksLT** database in Azure SQL Database.

4. Use the query under **Task 1** in the **Lab Exercise 1.sql** file to import the customer data.

5. Connect to the **AdventureWorksLT** database in Azure SQL Database.

6. Use the query under **Task 2** in the **Lab Exercise 1.sql** file to import the sales data.

7. Save the report as **AdventureWorksLT Sales 6.pbix** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter** folder.

#### Task 3: Shape Data

1. Rename **Query1** as **Customers**.

2. Rename **Query2** as **Sales**.

3. Delete the **NameStyle** column from the **Customers** table.

4. Delete the **SalesPerson** column.

5. Hide the **CustomerID** column in the report view.

6. Change the data category of the **AddressLine1** column to **Address**.

7. Change the data category of the **City** column to **City**.

8. Change the data category of the **StateProvince** column to **State or Province**.

9. Change the data category of the **CountryRegion** column to **Country/Region**.

10. Change the data category of the **PostalCode** column to **Postal Code**.

11. Add a new column called **FullAddress**, and then for the value of each row, concatenate **AddressLine1**, **City**, **StateProvince**, **CountryRegion**, and **PostalCode**.

12. In the **Sales** table, delete the **RevisionNumber** column.

13. Delete the **SalesOrderNumber** column.

14. Hide the **CustomerID** column in the report view.

15. Hide the **SalesOrderID** column in the report view.

16. Hide the **SalesOrderDetailID** column in the report view.

17. Add a new column called **LineTotal**, which multiplies the **OrderQty** column by the **ListPrice** column.

18. Change the format of the **LineTotal** column to the currency **$ English (United States)**.

19. Create a new measure named **TargetSales**, which increases the **LineTotal** field in the **Sales** table by 20 percent.

20. Save the file.

#### Task 4: Combine Data

1. Create a new table named **Sales by States** by importing the **States** table from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\Project\\States.xlsx file**.

2. Get data from the Wikipedia website at **http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._state_abbreviations** to import a list of states in America.

3. Remove the last 26 rows of the imported data.

4. Remove the first 3 rows of the imported data.

5. Remove the following columns that will not be used:

    1. Header

    2. Name and status of region2

    3. ANSI2

    4. USPS

    5. USCG

    6. GPO

    7. AP

    8. Other abbreviations

6. Change the name of the table to **States with Codes**.

7. Set the first row to be the header row.

8. Rename the **United States of America** column to **State Name**.

9. Rename the **US USA 840** column to **State Code Long**.

10. Merge the data into the **Sales by State** table, displaying just the **State Code Long** field.

11. If the **Privacy levels** dialog box appears, in the right hand list boxes, click **Organizational**, and then click **Save**.

12. If the **Information is required about data privacy** message appears, click **Continue**.

13. Name the new column **State Code**.

14. Click **Close & Apply**.

15. If the **Apply query changes** dialog box appears, click **Close**.

16. If the **There are pending changes in your queries that haven't been applied** message appears, click **Apply changes**.

17. Hide the **States with Codes** table in the report view.

18. Save the file, and then leave Power BI Desktop open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 2: Building Power BI Reports

#### Task 1: Create a Chart

1. In Power BI Desktop, add a gauge chart to the report. Use the **LineTotal** field for the **Value** property, and the **TargetSales** measure for the **Target value** property.

2. Set the **Max** value of the gauge to **1460000**.

3. Change the title of the gauge to **Target Sales**, and then center-align the text.

4. Drag the **CompanyName** and **LineTotal** fields onto the report to create a table.

5. Change the table to a pie chart, and then expand the chart to show all company names.

6. Change the title of the pie chart to **Top Selling Companies**, and then center-align the text.

7. Drag the **MainCategory** field onto the report canvas to create a table.

8. Add the **OrderQty** column.

9. Convert the table to a stacked bar chart.

10. Click **Analytics**, expand **Constant Line**, and click **Add**. Set **Value** to **500**, and then change **Color** to **red**.

11. Toggle the data label for **Constant Line**, and then set **Color** to **red**.

12. Change the title of the chart to **Orders by Main Category**, and then center-align the text.

13. Add a donut chart onto the report.

14. Tick **MainCategory** and **LineTotal** in the **Sales** table.

15. Change the title to **Sales by Main Category**, and center-align the text.

16. Create a table by dragging the **Product** field onto the report canvas.

17. Add the **LineTotal** field to the table chart.

18. Tick **MainCategory** to include this column.

19. Filter the products to display only those that have sales greater than **$32,000**.

20. Filter the list to display only bikes.

21. Change the table to a stacked column chart.

22. Change the title to **Top Selling Bikes**, and center-align the text.

23. Add a **Constant Line**, with the **Value** set to **35000**, and then set **Color** to **red**.

24. Expand the chart to fill the remaining space on the report. If necessary, move your visuals around to make them fit.

25. Save the report.

#### Task 2: Create a Map Visualization

1. Add a new page to the report.

2. Create a map by adding the **City** field from the **Customers** table.

3. Add the **LineTotal** field from the **Customers** table.

4. Expand the map so that all bubbles are visible.

5. Rename the map **World** **Sales by City**.

6. Click the report canvas, and then create a new map by adding the **State Code** field from the **Sales by State** table.

7. Add the **SalesYTD** field from the **Sales by State** table.

8. Resize the map to show all states, and then see how the sales are clustered in one area.

9. View the data for **US-CA**, and then change the format of the **SalesYTD** column to **$ English (United States)**.

10. Rename the map **Sales by State**.

11. Save the report, and leave it open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

#### Task 1: Publish Reports from Power BI Desktop

1. Publish the report to **My Workspace**.

2. When the report has published, click **Open 'AdventureWorksLT Sales 6.pbix' in Power BI**.

3. In Internet Explorer, sign in to Power BI if you are prompted to do so.

4. View the report in Power BI.

#### Task 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard

1. In Power BI, view **Page 1** of the report.

2. On the **Target Sales** visual, click **Pin visual**, and then create a new dashboard called **AdventureWorksLT Sales**.

3. Pin the **Top Selling Customers** visual to the **AdventureWorksLT Sales** dashboard.

4. Pin the **Orders by Main Category** visual to the **AdventureWorksLT Sales** dashboard.

5. Pin the **Top Selling Bikes** visual to the **AdventureWorksLT Sales** dashboard.

6. Pin the **Sales by Main Category** visual to the **AdventureWorksLT Sales** dashboard.

7. Open the dashboard from the link under the **My Workspace** pane.

8. On the **Target Sales** tile, open the menu, and then in **Tile details**, give the tile a title of **Target Sales** and a subtitle of **Sales target for 2016**.

9. On the **Top Selling Customers** tile, open the menu, and then in **Tile details**, give the tile a title of **Top Selling Customers** and a subtitle of **Customers selling the most products**.

10. Open the **Top Selling Bikes** tile in Focus mode. Filter **LineTotal** from **32000** to **40000**.

11. Exit Focus mode.

12. Click **Enter Full Screen Mode**. Notice that the browser is hidden.

13. Press Esc to exit full-screen mode and close Internet Explorer.

14. Close Power BI Desktop, and then close SQL Server Management Studio without saving any changes.
