# Module 2: Introducing Power BI

- [Module 2: Introducing Power BI](#module-2-introducing-power-bi)
  - [Lab: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#lab-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
    - [Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data](#exercise-1-connecting-to-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: Connect to SQL Server from the Power BI Desktop](#task-2-connect-to-sql-server-from-the-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 3: Add Charts to the Report](#task-3-add-charts-to-the-report)
      - [Task 4: Publish the Report to the Power BI Portal](#task-4-publish-the-report-to-the-power-bi-portal)
    - [Exercise 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard](#exercise-2-create-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 1: Create a New Dashboard](#task-1-create-a-new-dashboard)
      - [Task 2: Add Chart Items to the Dashboard](#task-2-add-chart-items-to-the-dashboard)
      - [Task 3: Customize the Dashboard](#task-3-customize-the-dashboard)
      - [Task 4: Display the Dashboard in Full Screen Mode](#task-4-display-the-dashboard-in-full-screen-mode)


## Lab: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

### Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, and **20778C-MIA-SQL** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02\\Starter** folder, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. If prompted to continue this operation, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

5. When the script completes, press any key to close the window.

6. If you do not have a Power BI login, open **Internet Explorer**, go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and follow the steps to create an account.

7. Close Internet Explorer.

#### Task 2: Connect to SQL Server from the Power BI Desktop

1. On the Taskbar, click **Power BI Desktop**.

2. In the **Welcome to Power BI Desktop** window, click **Already have a Power BI account? Sign in**.

3. In the **Sign in** dialog box, enter your account credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

4. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter your password credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

5. On the **Power BI Desktop** window, in the left-hand pane, click **Get data**.

6. In the **Get Data** dialog box, click **SQL Server database**, and then click **Connect**.

7. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, in the **Server** box, type **MIA-SQL**, in the **Database (optional)** box, type **AdventureWorks**, and then click **OK**.

8. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, accept the default values, and then click **Connect**.

9. If an **Encryption Support** message is displayed, click **OK**.

10. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **Sales.vSalesPerson** check box, and then click **Load**.

11. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **Sales vSalesPerson** to view all the columns.

12. On the **Home** tab, click **Recent Sources**, and then click **MIA-SQL: AdventureWorks**.

13. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **Sales.vStoreWithDemographics** check box, and then click **Load**.

14. If the **Connection settings dialog box** appears, ensure **Import** is selected, and then click **OK**.

15. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **Sales.vStoreWithDemographics** to view all the columns.

16. On the **Home** tab, click the **Get Data** arrow, and then click **SQL Server**.

17. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, in the **Server** box, type **MIA-SQL**, and then in the **Database (optional)** box, type **AdventureWorks**.

18. Expand **Advanced options**, in the **SQL statement (optional, required database)** box, type the following code, and then click **OK**:
    ```
    SELECT TOP 10 P.ProductID, P.Name AS Product, SUM(CAST(LineTotal AS decimal(18,2))) AS LineTotal
    FROM Purchasing.PurchaseOrderDetail AS POD
    INNER JOIN Production.Product AS P
    ON POD.ProductID = P.ProductID
    GROUP BY P.ProductID, P.Name
    ORDER BY LineTotal DESC
    ```

19. If the **Connection settings dialog box** appears, ensure **Import** is selected, and then click **OK**.

20. In the **MIA-SQL: AdventureWorks** dialog box, click **Load**.

21. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **Query1** to view all columns.

22. Right-click **Query1**, click **Rename**, type **Top 10 Selling Products**, and then press Enter.

#### Task 3: Add Charts to the Report

1. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Stacked column chart** to add a control to the report.

2. In the **FIELDS** pane, under **Sales** **vSalesPerson**, drag the **FirstName** field to the **Axis** box in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane.

3. Drag the **SalesYTD** field to the **Value** box. The chart will populate with the data.

4. On the chart in the report, click and drag the sizer on the right-hand side of the chart to widen the chart and display all the salespeople.

5. Ensure the chart has focus, and then in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**.

6. Expand **Data colors**, then toggle **Show all** to **On**.

7. Change the color for **Linda**, **Jae**, and **Michael** to red.

8. Click the report canvas then in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Pie chart** to add a control to the report. Drag the pie chart to the right of the bar chart, or below if there is not enough space.

9. In the **FIELDS** pane, under **Sales** **vStoreWithDemographics**, drag the **Specialty** field to the **Legend** box in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane.

10. Drag the **NumberEmployees** field to the **Values** box. The chart will populate with the data and should display three pie sections.

11. Click the report canvas, then in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Stacked column chart** to add a control to the report. The chart should be located under the previous charts.

12. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **Top 10 Selling Products**, drag the **Product** field to the **Axis** box in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane.

13. Drag the **LineTotal** field to the **Value** box. The chart will populate with the data.

14. Click the **Top 10 Selling Products** chart to give it focus, then in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Donut chart**. Note how easy it is to switch to a different chart type.

15. On the chart, grab the sizer on the right-hand side of the donut chart to widen the chart to display all the product names in full.

16. In the **FIELDS** pane, under **Sales vStoreWithDemographics**, click and drag the **AnnualSales** field directly onto the report canvas. See how this automatically creates a bar chart.

17. In the **FIELDS** pane, select the **AnnualRevenue** check box, and note that this adds the field to the bar chart.

18. In the **FIELDS** pane, next to the **AnnualRevenue**, click the ellipsis (**...**) , and click **Rename**. Type **Annual Revenue**, and then press Enter.

19. Repeat Step 18 to rename the **AnnualSales** field to **Annual Sales**. Note that the names in the title and legend of the bar chart update accordingly.

20. Click the report canvas, and then in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**.

21. Expand **Page information**, and in the **Name** box, type **Sales**, and then press Enter. Note the name has changed in the tab at the bottom of the report.

22. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

23. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02**.

24. Click **New folder**, type **Power BI**, and then press Enter.

25. Navigate to **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02\\Power BI**, in the **File name** box, type **Adventure Works Sales 2**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 4: Publish the Report to the Power BI Portal

1. In Power BI Desktop, on the **Home** tab, click **Publish**.

2. In the **Publish to Power BI** dialog box, click **My workspace**, and then click **Select**.

3. The report will then be published to the Power BI portal.

4. In the **Publishing to Power BI** dialog box, when the window displays **Success**, click **Open 'Adventure Works Sales 2.pbix' in Power BI** to view the report online.

5. In Internet Explorer, click **SIGN IN**, enter your email address and password, click **Sign in**, and wait for the report to open.

6. Leave the browser window open for the next lab exercise.

---

### Exercise 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard

#### Task 1: Create a New Dashboard

1. In the Power BI portal, click **My Workspace**.

2. Click **+ Create**, and then click **Dashboard.**

3. In the **Create dashboard** dialog box, in the **Dashboard name** box, type **Adventure Works Sales 2**, and then click **Create**.

4. The blank dashboard canvas will appear in the main window.

#### Task 2: Add Chart Items to the Dashboard

1. Under **My Workspace**, under **REPORTS**, click **Adventure Works Sales 2**. This will open the report in the main window.

2. Position the cursor on the **SalesYTD by FirstName** bar chart, and click **Pin visual**.

3. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, and in the list, click **Adventure Works Sales 2**, and then click **Pin**. You will see a notification to say the visual has been pinned.

4. Position the cursor on the **LineTotal by Product** chart, and click **Pin visual**.

5. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, and in the list, click **Adventure Works Sales 2**, and then click **Pin**. You will see a notification to say the visual has been pinned.

6. Position the cursor on the **Annual Sales and Annual Revenue** bar chart, and click **Pin visual**.

7. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, and in the list, click **Adventure Works Sales 2**, and then click **Pin**. You will see a notification to say the visual has been pinned.

8. Under **My Workspace**, under **DASHBOARDS**, click **Adventure Works Sales 2** to open the dashboard.

#### Task 3: Customize the Dashboard

1. In the **Adventure Works Sales 2** dashboard, position the cursor on the **Annual Sales, Annual Revenue** chart to change the icon to a hand. Then drag the chart to the top left-hand corner of the canvas. It will change places with the **SalesYTD** chart. Notice that the names of the charts have been changed.

2. Position the cursor on the **SalesYTD** chart so the arrow appears in the bottom right-hand corner of the chart. Grab the arrow and widen the chart so it spans the width of the charts above.

3. With the mouse on the **SalesYTD** chart, in the top right-hand corner, click the ellipsis (**...**), and then click **Edit details**.

4. In the **Tile details** pane, in the **Title** box, change the name to **Year to Date** **Sales**.

5. In the **Subtitle** box, type **By Sales Person**, and then click **Apply**.

6. Repeat Steps 3 to 5 for the **LineTotal** chart. Rename the **Title** to **Top 10 Selling Products**. Change the **Subtitle** to **By Sales**.

7. Repeat Steps 3 to 5 for the **Annual Sales, Annual Revenue** chart. Rename the **Title** to **Annual Sales v Annual Revenue**. Change the **Subtitle** to **By Stores**.

#### Task 4: Display the Dashboard in Full Screen Mode

1. On the **Adventure Works Sales 2** dashboard, click **Enter Full Screen Mode** from the menu items on the top right-hand side. Notice that the browser disappears.

2. Notice the floating menu in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen. Click **Fit to Screen** and notice how the screen zooms in to remove as much of the excess background space as possible.

3. Position the cursor on the **Year to Date Sales** tile so the **More options** menu ellipsis appears on the top right-hand corner of the chart. Click the ellipsis, then click **Open in** **focus mode**. The single tile is displayed and fits the screen.

4. On the floating menu, in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen, click **Exit Full Screen Mode**.

5. On the **Year to Date Sales** tile, click **Pin visual**.

6. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **New dashboard**, and in the **Dashboard name** box, type **Year to Date Sales**, and then click **Pin**. The **Pinned to dashboard** pop-up displays to confirm the tile has been pinned.

7. In the top left-hand corner of the screen, click **Exit Focus mode** to return to the dashboard.

8. Close Internet Explorer.

9. In the **Publishing to Power BI** dialog box, click **Got it**.

10. Close Power BI Desktop.
