# Module 5: Modeling Data

- [Module 5: Modeling Data](#module-5-modeling-data)
  - [Lab: Modeling Data](#lab-modeling-data)
    - [Exercise 1: Create Relationships](#exercise-1-create-relationships)
      - [Task 1: Preparing the Environment](#task-1-preparing-the-environment)
      - [Task 2: Automatic Relationships](#task-2-automatic-relationships)
      - [Task 3: Manual Relationships](#task-3-manual-relationships)
    - [Exercise 2: Calculations](#exercise-2-calculations)
      - [Task 1: Adding Calculated Columns](#task-1-adding-calculated-columns)


## Lab: Modeling Data

### Exercise 1: Create Relationships

#### Task 1: Preparing the Environment

1. Ensure that the **20778C-MIA-DC** and **20778C-MIA-SQL** virtual machines are both running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run **Setup.cmd** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\Starter** folder as **Administrator**.

3. If you do not already have a Power BI login, go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and follow the steps to create an account.

#### Task 2: Automatic Relationships

1. Open Power BI Desktop from the taskbar.

2. From Get Data, connect to **Adventure Works Sales Data.xlsx** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\Starter\\Project** folder.

3. Import the **DimCurrency, DimCustomer, DimDate, DimProduct, DimPromotion, DimSalesTerritory**, and **FactInternetSales** worksheets.

4. Click the **Model** view.

5. Create a new relationship between the **FactInternetSales** table **OrderDateKey** column, and the **DateKey** column in **DimDate**. Set the cardinality to **Many to one (\*:1)**, the cross filter direction to **Single**, and make this relationship **active**.

6. In the Model view, drag the **DueDateKey** column in the **FactInternetSales** table **to** the **DateKey** column of the **DimDate table**.

7. Drag the **ShipDateKey** column in the **FactInternetSales** table to the **DateKey** column of the **DimDate** table to create a new relationship.

8. Use the **Manage relationships** dialog box to change the cross filter direction of the relationship between **FactInternetSales** and **DimCurrency** to **Single**.

9. Use the **Manage relationships** dialog box to change the cross filter direction of the relationship between **FactInternetSales** and **DimProduct** to **Single**.

10. Use the **Manage relationships** dialog box to change the cross filter direction of the relationship between **FactInternetSales** and **DimPromotion** to **Single**.

11. Use the **Manage relationships** dialog box to change the cross filter direction of the relationship between **FactInternetSales** and **DimSalesTerritory** to **Single**.

12. Change the relationship between **FactInternetSales** and **DimCustomer** so this is **Many to one (\*:1)** from **FactInternetSales**. Set the **Cross filter direction** to **Both**.

13. Save the file to the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\Starter** folder and name it **Adventure Works Sales 5.pbix**.

#### Task 3: Manual Relationships

1. In Power BI Desktop, load the **DimProductCategory**, and **DimProductSubcategory** data from the **Adventure Works Product Categories.xlsx** file, located in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\Starter\\Project** folder into your dataset.

2. Delete the relationship between **DimProductCategory**, and **DimProductSubcategory**.

3. Create a new **Many to one (\*:1)** relationship between **DimProductSubCategory**, and **DimProductCategory**, by dragging the **CategoryKey** from **DimProductSubcategory**, to **CategoryKey** on **DimProductCategory**. The cross filter direction should be **Both**.

4. Drag the **ProductSubcategoryKey** column in the **DimProduct** table, to the **SubcategoryKey** column in the **DimProductSubcategory** table, to create a **Many to one (\*:1)** relationship, and set the cross filter direction to **Both**.

5. Save the file.

6. Leave Power BI Desktop open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 2: Calculations

#### Task 1: Adding Calculated Columns

1. Click **Data** in the views pane in Power BI Desktop.

2. Add a calculated column named IncomeStatus to the **DimCustomer** table, based on the **YearlyIncome** column. Put the income into income brackets.

3. Add a calculated column named **DaysSinceFirstPurchase** to the **DimCustomer** table, to show the number of days since the customer made their first purchase.

4. Add a calculated column to **DimCustomer**, which concatenates the **FirstName** and **LastName** columns into a column named **FullName**.

5. Add a calculated column to **DimCustomer**, called **MaleFemale**, which converts the value of the **Gender** column to Male, or Female.

6. Add a calculated column to **DimCustomer**, called **Relationship**, which converts the value of the **MaritalStatus** column to Married, or Single.

7. Add a calculated column called **MainCategory** to the **DimProductSubcategory** table, which uses the RELATED function to return the name of the category from **DimProductCategory**.

8. Add a calculated column called **PromotionLengthDays** to the **DimPromotion** table to show how many days the promotion lasted. This is the difference between **StartDate** and **EndDate**.

9. Add a calculated column called **Profit** to **FactInternetSales**. Show the difference between **UnitPrice** and **ProductStandardCost**, formatted as currency.

10. Close Power BI Desktop, saving any changes.
