# Module 7: Direct Connectivity

- [Module 7: Direct Connectivity](#module-7-direct-connectivity)
  - [Lab: Direct connectivity](#lab-direct-connectivity)
    - [Exercise 1: Direct connections in Power BI](#exercise-1-direct-connections-in-power-bi)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the lab environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: Direct connectivity from the Power BI Desktop](#task-2-direct-connectivity-from-the-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 3: Direct connectivity from the Power BI service](#task-3-direct-connectivity-from-the-power-bi-service)


## Lab: Direct connectivity

### Exercise 1: Direct connections in Power BI

#### Task 1: Prepare the lab environment

1. Ensure that the **20778C-MIA-DC**, **20778C-MIA-SQL**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run **Setup.cmd** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter** folder as Administrator.

3. If you do not already have a Power BI login, browse to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and then follow the steps to create an account.

4. Create the **AdventureWorksLT** database using the **D:\\Creating an AdventureWorks Database on Azure.docx**.

#### Task 2: Direct connectivity from the Power BI Desktop

1. Start with a blank Power BI Desktop file.

2. Connect to Azure SQL Database **AdventureWorksLT**, using **DirectQuery**.

3. Load the **SalesLT.Product** and **SalesLT.SalesOrderDetail** tables.

4. Create a chart based on the **Card** visualization.

5. Add the **OrderQty** field from the **SalesLT SalesOrderDetail** table to the chart.

6. Create a slicer based on the **Slicer** visualization.

7. Add the **SellStartDate** field from the **SalesLT Product** table to the slicer.

8. Save the desktop file as **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter\\Sales Orders.pbix**.

#### Task 3: Direct connectivity from the Power BI service

1. Publish the report to the Power BI service.

2. Go to **http://www.powerbi.com** and sign in using your account.

3. Go to the newly created dataset and edit the credentials required.

    > To configure the dataset settings for a DirectQuery data source, you need a Power BI Pro account.

4. Sign in using the credentials you used to sign up for Power BI service.

5. Go to the newly created Sales Orders report. You should already have a card visualization for the **OrderQty** and a slicer for the **SellStartDate**.

6. Create a chart based on the **Card** visualization.

7. Add the **LineTotal** field from the **SalesLT SalesOrderDetail** table to the chart.

8. Close Internet Explorer, and Power BI Desktop.
