# Module 4: Shaping and Combining Data

- [Module 4: Shaping and Combining Data](#module-4-shaping-and-combining-data)
  - [Lab: Shaping and Combining Data](#lab-shaping-and-combining-data)
    - [Exercise 1: Shape Power BI Data](#exercise-1-shape-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Preparing the Environment](#task-1-preparing-the-environment)
      - [Task 2: Import Data from Excel](#task-2-import-data-from-excel)
      - [Task 3: Apply Formatting to the Existing Data](#task-3-apply-formatting-to-the-existing-data)
    - [Exercise 2: Combine Power BI Data](#exercise-2-combine-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Add Related Data to the Shaped Data](#task-1-add-related-data-to-the-shaped-data)


## Lab: Shaping and Combining Data

### Exercise 1: Shape Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Preparing the Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, and **20778C-MIA-SQL** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run **Setup.cmd** in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder as Administrator.

3. If a message asks **Do you want to continue with this operation?**, type **Y** and press Enter.

4. If you do not already a Power BI login, go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and follow the steps to create an account.

#### Task 2: Import Data from Excel

1. Open **Power BI Desktop**, and sign in.

2. Import the **Sales - Europe.xlsx** file from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder.

3. In the **Navigator** window, select **Europe**, and click **Load**.

4. Import the **Sales - North America.xlsx** file from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder.

5. In the **Navigator** window, select **North America**, and click **Edit**, to open the Power Query Editor.

#### Task 3: Apply Formatting to the Existing Data

1. In the **Queries \[2\]** pane, click **Europe** to display the data in preview mode.

2. Remove the **ProductKey** column.

3. Remove the **SalesOrderNumber** column.

4. Rename the **SalesTerritoryCountry** column to **Country**.

5. Rename the **SalesTerritoryGroup** column to **Sales Territory**.

6. Rename the **EnglishProductCategoryName** to **Main Category**.

7. Rename the **EnglishProductSubcategoryName** column to **Sub Category**.

8. Rename **EnglishProductName** to **Product**.

9. Move the **Color** column to the left.

10. In the **Queries** pane, click **North America**.

11. Remove the **ProductKey** column.

12. Remove the **SalesOrderNumber** column.

13. Rename the **SalesTerritoryCountry** column to **Country**.

14. Rename the **SalesTerritoryGroup** column to **Sales Territory**.

15. Rename the **EnglishProductCategoryName** to **Main Category**.

16. Rename the **EnglishProductSubcategoryName** column to **Sub Category**.

17. Rename **EnglishProductName** to **Product**.

18. Move the **Color** column to the left.

19. Open **Advanced Editor** to view the query that has been updated with the steps.

20. Leave Power Query Editor open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 2: Combine Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Add Related Data to the Shaped Data

1. Select **Europe** in the **Queries** pane.

2. Click **Append Queries**, and combine the North America data with the Europe data.

3. Use the selection menu on the Country column header to check that the data has loaded.

4. Import the **Country Codes.xlsx** file from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder.

5. In the **Navigator** window, select **Country Codes**, and click **Load**.

6. Merge the **Country Codes** table with the **Europe** table.

7. Exclude the **Territory** and **Country** columns, and clear the **Use original column name as prefix** setting.

8. Move the **Code** column to the beginning of the table.

9. Rename the **Code** column as **Country Code**.

10. Apply the changes.

11. Close Power Query Editor, close Power BI Desktop without saving any changes, and then close Excel.
