# Module 6: Interactive Data Visualizations

- [Module 6: Interactive Data Visualizations](#module-6-interactive-data-visualizations)
  - [Lab: Creating a Power BI Report](#lab-creating-a-power-bi-report)
    - [Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data](#exercise-1-connecting-to-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-environment)
      - [Task 2: Connect to Existing Data in Azure](#task-2-connect-to-existing-data-in-azure)
      - [Task 3: Shape Data](#task-3-shape-data)
      - [Task 4: Combine Data](#task-4-combine-data)
    - [Exercise 2: Building Power BI Reports](#exercise-2-building-power-bi-reports)
      - [Task 1: Create a Chart](#task-1-create-a-chart)
      - [Task 2: Create a Map Visualization](#task-2-create-a-map-visualization)
    - [Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#exercise-3-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 1: Publish Reports from Power BI Desktop](#task-1-publish-reports-from-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard](#task-2-create-a-power-bi-dashboard)


## Lab: Creating a Power BI Report

### Exercise 1: Connecting to Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Prepare the Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, and **20778C-MIA-SQL** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter** folder, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. If prompted to continue this operation, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

5. When the script completes, press any key to close the window.

6. If you do not have a Power BI login, open **Internet Explorer**, go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and follow the steps to create an account.

7. In File Explorer, navigate to **D:**, double-click **Creating an AdventureWorks Database on Azure.docx**, and then complete the steps to create the **AdventureWorksLT** database.

8. Close Internet Explorer.

#### Task 2: Connect to Existing Data in Azure

1. On the Taskbar, click **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio 18**.

2. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, ensure SQL Server is set to the **MIA-SQL** database engine instance using **Windows Authentication**, and then click **Connect**.

3. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.

4. In the **Open Project** dialog box, browse to the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\Project** folder, and then double-click **Project.ssmssln**.

5. In Solution Explorer, expand **Queries**, and then double-click **Lab Exercise 1.sql**.

6. On the Taskbar, click **Power BI Desktop**.

7. In the **Welcome to Power BI Desktop** window, click **Already have a Power BI account? Sign in**.

8. In the **Sign in** dialog box, enter your account credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

9. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter your password credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

10. In the **Power BI Desktop** window, click **Get data**.

11. In the **Get Data** dialog box, click **Azure SQL database**, and then click **Connect**.

12. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, in the **Server** box, type the URL of the Azure server **\<*Server Name*\>.database.windows.net**.

13. In the **Database (optional)** box, type **AdventureWorksLT**.

14. Expand the **Advanced options** box.

15. In SQL Server Management Studio, in the **Lab Exercise 1.sql** query, copy the query under **Task 1** to the clipboard.

16. In Power BI Desktop, in the **SQL statement (optional, requires database)** box, paste the query, and then click **OK**.

17. If the **SQL Server database** dialog box appears, on the **Database** tab, in the **User name** box, type **Student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.

18. In the data preview window, click **Load**.

19. On the **Home** tab, click the **Get Data** arrow, and then click **More**.

20. In the **Get Data** dialog box, click **Azure SQL database**, and then click **Connect**.

21. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, in the **Server** box, type the URL of the Azure server **\<*Server Name*\>.database.windows.net**.

22. In the **Database (optional)** box, type **AdventureWorksLT**.

23. Expand the **Advanced options** box.

24. In SQL Server Management Studio, in the **Lab Exercise 1.sql** query, copy the query under **Task 2** to the clipboard.

25. In Power BI Desktop, in the **SQL statement (optional, requires database)** box, paste the query, and then click **OK**.

26. In the data preview window, click **Load**.

27. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

28. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter**, in the **File name** box, type **AdventureWorksLT Sales 6.pbix**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Shape Data

1. In the **FIELDS** pane, right-click **Query1**, click **Rename**, type **Customers**, and then press Enter.

2. Right-click **Query2**, click **Rename**, type **Sales**, and then press Enter.

3. Expand the two tables to display all of the fields.

4. In the left navigation bar, click **Data**.

5. In the **FIELDS** pane, click the **Customers** table, if it is not already selected.

6. Right-click the **NameStyle** column, and click **Delete**.

7. In the **Delete column** dialog box, click **Delete**.

8. Right-click the **SalesPerson** column, and click **Delete**.

9. In the **Delete column** dialog box, click **Delete**.

10. Right-click the **CustomerID** column, and then click **Hide in report view**.

11. Click the **AddressLine1** column header.

12. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Properties** group, click **Data Category: Uncategorized**, and then click **Address**.

13. Click the **City** column header.

14. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Properties** group, click **Data Category: Uncategorized**, and then click **City**.

15. Click the **StateProvince** column header.

16. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Properties** group, click **Data Category: Uncategorized**, and then click **State or Province**.

17. Click the **CountryRegion** column header.

18. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Properties** group, click **Data Category: Uncategorized**, and then click **Country/Region**.

19. Click the **PostalCode** column header.

20. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Properties** group, click **Data Category: Uncategorized**, and then click **Postal Code**.

21. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Calculations** group, click **New Column**, and then in the formula bar, type the following expression, and then press Enter:
    ```
    FullAddress = Customers[AddressLine1] & ", " & Customers[City] & ", " & Customers[StateProvince] & ", " & Customers[CountryRegion] & ", " & Customers[PostalCode]
    ```

22. In the **FIELDS** pane, click **Sales**.

23. Right-click the **RevisionNumber** column, and click **Delete**.

24. In the **Delete column** dialog box, click **Delete**.

25. Right-click the **SalesOrderNumber** column, and click **Delete**.

26. In the **Delete column** dialog box, click **Delete**.

27. Right-click the **CustomerID** column, and click **Hide in report view**.

28. Right-click the **SalesOrderID** column, and click **Hide in report view**.

29. Right-click the **SalesOrderDetailID** column, and click **Hide in report view**.

30. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Calculations** group, click **New Column**, and then in the formula bar, type the following expression, and then press Enter:
    ```
    LineTotal = Sales[OrderQty] * Sales[ListPrice]
    ```

31. Click the **LineTotal** column header.

32. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Formatting** group, click **Format: General**, point to **Currency**, and then click **$ English (United States)**.

33. On the **Modeling** tab, in the **Calculations** group, click **New Measure**, and then in the formula bar, type the following expression, and then press Enter:
    ```
    TargetSales = SUM('Sales'[LineTotal]) * 1.2
    ```

34. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

#### Task 4: Combine Data

1. In Power BI Desktop, on the **Home** tab, click the **Get Data** arrow, and then click **Excel**.

2. In the **Open** dialog box, browse to the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\Project** folder, click **States.xlsx**, and then click **Open**.

3. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **States** check box, and then click **Load**.

4. In the **FIELDS** pane, right-click **States**, click **Rename**, type **Sales by State**, and then press Enter.

5. On the **Home** tab, the **Get Data** arrow, and then click **Web**.

6. In the **From Web** dialog box, in the **URL** box, type **http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._state_abbreviations**, and then click **OK**.

7. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **Codes and abbreviations for U.S. states, federal district, territories, and other regions** check box, and then click **Load**.

8. In the **FIELDS** pane, click **Codes and abbreviations for U.S. states, federal district, territories, and other regions** to display the data. The table has 26 rows at the bottom and 3 rows at the top that are not needed.

9. On the **Home** tab, in the **External data** group, click the **Edit Queries** arrow, and then click **Edit Queries**.

10. In Power Query Editor, in the **Queries [4]** pane, click **Codes and abbreviations for U.S. states, federal district, territories, and other regions**.

11. On the **Home** tab, in the **Reduce Rows group**, click the **Remove Rows** arrow, and then click **Remove Bottom Rows**.

12. In the **Remove Bottom Rows** dialog box, in the **Number of rows** box, type **26**, and then click **OK**.

13. On the **Home** tab, in the **Reduce Rows group**, click the **Remove Rows** arrow, and then click **Remove Top Rows**.

14. In the **Remove Top Rows** dialog box, in the **Number of rows** box, type **3**, and then click **OK**.

15. Click the **ANSI2** column header, and then hold down the Ctrl key while selecting all of the columns to the right. This selects multiple rows.

16. Still holding down Ctrl, click the **Name and status of region2** and **Header** columns to include this in the selection.

17. On the **Home** tab, in the **Manage Columns group**, click the **Remove Columns** arrow, and then click **Remove Columns**.

18. In the **QUERY SETTINGS** pane, under **Properties**, in the **Name** box, type **States with Codes**, and then press Enter.

19. On the **Home** tab, in the **Transform** group, click **Use First Row as Headers**.

20. Right-click the **United States of America** column header, click **Rename**, type **State Name**, and then press Enter.

21. Right-click the **US USA 840** column header, click **Rename**, type **State Code Long**, and then press Enter.

22. In the **Queries [4]** pane, click **Sales by State**.

23. On the **Home** tab, click **Combine**, and then click **Merge Queries**.

24. In the **Merge** dialog box, in the **Sales by State** table, click the **States** column.

25. In the list, click **States with Codes**, and then click the **State Name** column.

26. If the **Privacy levels** dialog box appears, in both the right-hand list boxes, click **Organizational**, and then click **Save**.

27. In the **Merge** dialog box, click **OK**. The new column is added to the table and contains the merged **States with Codes** table.

28. If the **Information is required about data privacy** message appears, click **Continue**.

29. In the **States with Codes** column header, click the **Expand** icon, clear **(Select All Columns)**, select **State Code Long**, and then click **OK**. The column now shows just the state codes.

30. Right-click the **States with Codes.State Code Long** column, click **Rename**, type **State Code**, and then press Enter.

31. On the **File** menu, click **Close & Apply**.

32. If the **Apply query changes** dialog box appears, click **Close**.

33. If the **There are pending changes in your queries that haven't been applied** message appears, click **Apply changes**.

34. In the **FIELDS** pane, right-click **States with Codes**, and then click **Hide in report view**.

35. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

36. Leave Power BI Desktop open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 2: Building Power BI Reports

#### Task 1: Create a Chart

1. In Power BI Desktop, in the left navigation bar, click **Report**.

2. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Gauge**.

3. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, drag the **LineTotal** field to the **Value** property of the gauge.

4. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, drag the **TargetSales** measure to the **Target value** property of the gauge.

5. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, expand **Gauge axis**, and then in the **Max** box, type **1460000**.

6. Expand **Title**, in the **Title text** box, type **Target Sales**, and then click **Center**.

7. Click an empty area on the report canvas.

8. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Customers** table, drag the **CompanyName** field onto the report.

9. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, select the **LineTotal** check box.

10. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Pie chart**.

11. Expand the chart to make all of the company names visible by using the resizer handles on the edge of the chart.

12. With the focus still on the pie chart, in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and then click **Title**.

13. In the **Title text** box, type **Top Selling Customers**, and then click **Center**.

14. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, drag the **MainCategory** field onto the report canvas.

15. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, drag the **OrderQty** field onto the table.

16. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Stacked bar chart**.

17. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Analytics**, expand **Constant Line**, and then click **Add**.

18. In the **Value** box, type **500**.

19. Change **Color** to red, toggle **Data label** to **On**, and then change the color to **red**.

20. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and expand **Title**.

21. In the **Title Text** box, type **Orders by Main Category**, and then click **Center**.

22. Click the report canvas to give it focus, and then in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Donut chart**.

23. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, select the **MainCategory** and **LineTotal** check boxes.

24. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and then expand **Title**.

25. In the **Title Text** box, type **Sales by Main Category**, and then click **Center**.

26. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, drag the **Product** field onto the report canvas.

27. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, drag the **LineTotal** field onto the products table chart.

28. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, select the **MainCategory** check box.

29. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Fields**.

30. In the **Filters** pane, expand **LineTotal is (All)**.

31. In the **Show items when the value** list, click **is greater than**, in the box below, type **32000**, and then click **Apply filter**.

32. Expand **MainCategory is (All)**, and then select the **Bikes** check box.

33. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Stacked column chart**.

34. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and then expand **Title**.

35. In the **Title Text** box, type **Top Selling Bikes**, and then click **Center**.

36. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Analytics**, expand **Constant Line**, and then click **Add**.

37. In the **Value** box, type **35000**, and then set **Color** to **red**.

38. Toggle **Data label** to **On**, and then set **Color** to **red**.

39. Expand the chart to fill the remaining space on the report canvas. If necessary, move your visuals around to make them fit.

40. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

#### Task 2: Create a Map Visualization

1. At the bottom of the report, click the **+** icon to add a new page.

2. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Customers** table, select the **City** check box.

3. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales** table, select the **LineTotal** check box.

4. Using the grabber tool on the right side of the chart, resize the map to show all of the bubbles.

5. Notice that the bubbles are proportionally sized to represent the data.

6. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and then expand **Title**.

7. In the **Title Text** box, type **World Sales by City**, and then click **Center**.

8. Click the report canvas, and then in the **Sales by State** table, select the **State Code** check box.

9. In the **Sales by State** table, select the **SalesYTD** check box.

10. Using the grabber tool on the right side and at the bottom of the chart, resize the map to show all the states.

11. Notice that the sales cluster in one area.

12. Position the cursor on **US-CA** to see the sales figure. The value has not been formatted as currency.

13. In the **FIELDS** pane, in the **Sales by State** table, click **SalesYTD**.

14. On the **Modeling** tab, click **Format: General**, point to **Currency**, and then click **$ English (United Stated)**.

15. Position the cursor on **US-CA** on the map, and notice that the value has been formatted.

16. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and then expand **Title**.

17. In the **Title Text** box, type **Sales by State**, and then click **Center**.

18. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

19. Leave the report open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

#### Task 1: Publish Reports from Power BI Desktop

1. In Power BI Desktop, on the **Home** tab, click **Publish**.

2. In the **Publish to Power BI** dialog box, click **My workspace**, and then click **Select**.

3. In the **Publishing to Power BI** dialog box, when the window displays **Success**, click **Open 'AdventureWorksLT Sales 6.pbix' in Power BI** to view the report online.

4. In Internet Explorer, click **SIGN IN**, enter your email address and password, click **Sign in**, and wait for the report to open.

#### Task 2: Create a Power BI Dashboard

1. In Power BI, in the **AdventureWorksLT Sales** report, at the bottom of the page, click **Page 1**.

2. Click the **Target Sales** visual, and then click **Pin visual**.

3. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **New dashboard**, type **AdventureWorksLT Sales**, and then click **Pin**.

4. On the **Top Selling Customers** visual, click **Pin visual**.

5. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list, click **AdventureWorksLT Sales**, and then click **Pin**.

6. On the **Orders by Main Category** visual, click **Pin visual**.

7. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list, click **AdventureWorksLT Sales**, and then click **Pin**.

8. On the **Top Selling Bikes** visual, click **Pin visual**.

9. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list, click **AdventureWorksLT Sales**, and then click **Pin**.

10. On the **Sales by Main Category** visual, click **Pin visual**.

11. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list, click **AdventureWorksLT Sales**, and then click **Pin**.

12. In the left-hand pane, expand **My Workspace**, and then under **DASHBOARDS**, click the **AdventureWorksLT Sales** dashboard to open it.

13. Notice that the tiles are all the same size.

14. On the **Target Sales** tile, click **More options** (**...**), and then click **Edit details**.

15. In the **Title** box, type **Target Sales**, in the **Subtitle** box, type **Sales target for 2016**, and then click **Apply**.

16. On the **Top Selling Customers** tile, click **More options** (**...**), and then click **Edit details**.

17. In the **Title** box, type **Top Selling Customers**, in the **Subtitle** box, type **Customers selling the most products**, and then click **Apply**.

18. On the **Top Selling Bikes** tile, click **More options** (**...**), and then click **Open in focus mode**. The tile opens into its own space.

19. Expand the **FILTERS** pane, expand **LineTotal is greater than $32,000**, change the value of **32000** to **40000**, and then click **Apply filter**.

20. Next to the **Top Selling Bikes** report title, click **Exit Focus mode**.

21. Click **Enter Full Screen Mode**. Notice that the dashboard displays without any of the browser interface. This is ideal for presentations.

22. Press Esc to exit full-screen mode, and return to the dashboard.

23. Close Internet Explorer.

24. In the **Publishing to Power BI** dialog box, click **Got it**.

25. Close Power BI Desktop, and then close SQL Server Management Studio without saving any changes.
