# Module 1: Introduction to Self-Service BI Solutions

- [Module 1: Introduction to Self-Service BI Solutions](#module-1-introduction-to-self-service-bi-solutions)
  - [Lab: Exploring an Enterprise BI Solution](#lab-exploring-an-enterprise-bi-solution)
    - [Exercise 1: Viewing Reports](#exercise-1-viewing-reports)
      - [Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment](#task-1-prepare-the-lab-environment)
      - [Task 2: View Reports in SharePoint Server](#task-2-view-reports-in-sharepoint-server)
    - [Exercise 2: Creating a Power BI Report](#exercise-2-creating-a-power-bi-report)
      - [Task 1: Import Data into Power BI Desktop](#task-1-import-data-into-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 2: Add Visualizations to the Report](#task-2-add-visualizations-to-the-report)
    - [Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard](#exercise-3-creating-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 1: Create a Power BI Dashboard](#task-1-create-a-power-bi-dashboard)
      - [Task 2: Ask Questions of Your Data](#task-2-ask-questions-of-your-data)


## Lab: Exploring an Enterprise BI Solution

### Exercise 1: Viewing Reports

#### Task 1: Prepare the Lab Environment

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20778C-MIA-DC**, **20778C-MIA-SQL**, and **20778C-MIA-CLI** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20778C-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In File Explorer, in the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab01\\Starter** folder, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. If prompted to continue this operation, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

5. When the script is complete, press any key to close the window.

6. If you do not have a Power BI login, open Internet Explorer, browse to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/powerbi-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and then follow the steps to create an account.

7. In Internet Explorer, type **http://mia-sql/sites/adventureworks**, and then press Enter, wait for the site to appear.

8. Close Internet Explorer.

#### Task 2: View Reports in SharePoint Server

1. Log on to **20778C-MIA-CLI** as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In File Explorer, navigate to the folder **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab01\\Starter\\Project**, and double-click the **Adventure Works Sales.xlsx** file.

3. If the **External Data Connections have been disabled** security warning appears, click **Enable Content**.

4. On the **SalesPerson** tab, click any cell in the table and select it so the **Design** tab appears.

5. On the **Design** tab, click **Summarize with PivotTable**.

6. In the **Create PivotTable** dialog box, click **OK**.

7. In the new worksheet, in **PivotTable Fields**, select the **FirstName** check box to add this to the Axis, and then select the **SalesYTD** check box, to add this to Values.

8. In the **Tools** group, click **PivotChart**.

9. In the **Insert Chart** dialog box, leave **Clustered Column** selected, and click **OK**.

10. On the **Design** tab, in the **Location** group, click **Move Chart**.

11. In the **Move Chart** dialog box, click **New sheet**, type **Sales Person Chart**, and then click **OK**.

12. On the **File** menu, click **Save As**, and then click **Browse**.

13. In the **Save As** dialog box, in the file location bar, type **http://mia-sql/sites/adventureworks**, and then press Enter.

14. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.

15. Click **Documents**, click **Open**, and then click **Save**.

16. Close Excel 2016.

17. Open **Internet Explorer**, and navigate to **http://mia-sql/sites/adventureworks/Shared Documents**.

18. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.

19. Click **Adventure Works Sales** to open the workbook in Excel.

20. In the **Microsoft Office** dialog box, click **Yes**.

21. In the **Windows Security** dialog boxes, in the **User name** box, type **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.

22. View the **Sales Person Chart** clustered column chart.

23. Close Excel 2016, and then close Internet Explorer.

---

### Exercise 2: Creating a Power BI Report

#### Task 1: Import Data into Power BI Desktop

1. Log on to **20778B-MIA-SQL** as **ADVENTUREWORKS\\Student**, with a password of **Pa55w.rd.**.

2. On the Taskbar, click **Power BI Desktop**.

3. In the **Welcome to Power BI Desktop** window, click **Already have a Power BI account? Sign in**.

4. In the **Sign in** dialog box, enter your credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

5. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter your credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

6. On the **Power BI Desktop** screen appears, click **Get data**.

7. In the **Get Data** dialog box, click **SQL Server database**, and then click **Connect**.

8. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, in the **Server** box, type **MIA-SQL**.

9. In the **Database (optional)** box, type **AdventureWorksDW**, and then click **OK**.

10. If the **SQL Server database** dialog box appears, leave the default settings unchanged, and then click **Connect**.

11. If the **Encryption Support** dialog box appears, click **OK**.

12. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **FactInternetSales** check box.

13. Click **Select Related Tables**, and then click **Load**.

14. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

15. In the **Save As** dialog box, browse to the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab01\\Starter\\Project** folder, and in the **File name** box, type **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 2: Add Visualizations to the Report

1. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **FactInternetSales**, and drag the **SalesAmount** field onto the report canvas to create a column chart.

2. Expand **DimDate**, and drag the **EnglishDayNameOfWeek** field to the **Axis** property.

3. Move the chart to the top left-hand corner of the canvas, and expand the chart width so the days of the week display in full.

4. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Format**, and expand **Title**.

5. In the **Title text** box, type **Sales by Day of Week**.

6. Next to **Alignment**, click the **Center** icon.

7. In the **FIELDS** pane, under **FactInternetSales**, drag the **SalesAmount** field onto the report canvas to create a column chart.

8. Under **DimDate**, drag the **CalendarQuarter** field onto the chart. Notice that there is only one column.

9. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Fields**. Drag the **CalendarQuarter** field from **Value** to **Axis**.

10. Click **Format**, and expand **Title**.

11. In the **Title text** box, type **Sales by Calendar Quarter**.

12. Next to **Alignment**, click the **Center** icon.

13. Expand **Data colors**, change **Show all** to **On**, and for **1**, select **red**, for **2**, select **blue**, and for **3**, select **yellow**.

14. Move the chart to the right of the **Sales by Day of Week** chart, and expand it so both charts are the same height.

15. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **DimSalesTerritory**, and drag the **SalesTerritoryCountry** column onto the report canvas under the **Sales by Day of Week** chart.

16. Under **FactInternetSales**, drag the **SalesAmount** field onto the map.

17. Expand the map to show all the values.

18. In the **Title text** box, type **Sales by Country**.

19. Next to **Alignment**, click the **Center** icon.

20. In the **FIELDS** pane, expand **DimCustomer**, and drag the **CommuteDistance** field onto the report canvas under the **Sales by Calendar Quarter** chart.

21. Under **FactInternetSales**, drag the **SalesAmount** field onto the chart.

22. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Donut chart**.

23. In the **Title text** box, type **Sales by Commute Distance**.

24. Next to **Alignment**, click the **Center** icon.

25. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

---

### Exercise 3: Creating a Power BI Dashboard

#### Task 1: Create a Power BI Dashboard

1. In Power BI Desktop, on the **Home** tab, click **Publish**.

2. In the **Publish to Power BI** dialog box, click **My workspace**, and then click **Select**.

3. The report will then be published to the Power BI portal. When the window displays **Success**, click **Open \'Adventure Works Sales 1.pbix\' in Power BI** to view the report online.

4. In Internet Explorer, if you are prompted to enter your Power BI credentials, enter your email address and password, and wait for the report to open.

5. On the **Sales by Day of Week** column chart, click **Pin visual**.

6. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **New dashboard**, type **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Pin**.

7. On the **Sales by Calendar Quarter** column chart, click **Pin visual**.

8. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list click **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Pin**.

9. On the **Sales by Country** map chart, click **Pin visual**.

10. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list click **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Pin**.

11. On the **Sales by Commute Distance** donut chart, click **Pin visual**.

12. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list click **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Pin**.

13. In the left pane, expand **My Workspace**.

14. Under **DASHBOARDS**, click **Adventure Works Sales 1**.

#### Task 2: Ask Questions of Your Data

1. In the **Adventure Works Sales 1** dashboard, click in the **Ask a question about your data** box.

2. In the **Ask a question about your data** box, type **dim customers**.

3. Power BI shows you a table of the data in the **DimCustomers** table.

4. In the **Ask a question about your data** box, type **how many customer**, and the count of **18484** shows in the results.

5. Click **Pin visual**.

6. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list click **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Pin**.

7. In the **Ask a question about your data** box, type **who is the oldest customer**, and the results show the oldest customer.

8. In the **Ask a question about your data** box, type **how many products are red**, and the result is displayed.

9. In the **Ask a question about your data** box, type **which country has the most male customers**, and a bar chart shows the results.

10. Click **Pin visual**.

11. In the **Pin to dashboard** dialog box, click **Existing dashboard**, in the list click **Adventure Works Sales 1**, and then click **Pin**.

12. In the left pane, under **My Workspace**, under **DASHBOARDS**, click **Adventure Works Sales 1**. Scroll down and notice the two additional tiles now appear.

13. Close Internet Explorer.

14. In the **Publishing to Power BI** dialog box, click **Got it**.

15. Close Power BI Desktop.